# Contemporary Issues In Data

Welcome! Your writing assignment will be in this file.  See [the instructions](./instructions.md) for more details.

## Article 1
In wbur's [The Cost Of U.S. Counterterrorism Efforts: More Than 800,000 Lives And $6.4 Trillion, Research Finds](https://www.wbur.org/hereandnow/2021/03/02/countterorrism-cost-us-military), it states that there have been great efforts in various means made by the US military on counterterrorism activities. Based on data from the Costs of War Project at Brown University's Watson Institute, the U.S. carried out the air or drone strikes in seven other countries. On the other hand, the government has been connecting to the global terrorist database in accord with a border patrol system.

Speaking on the positive side, the database's fullness provides a layer of protection power on homeland security and maybe even for the world's unity and serenity. What also should be contemplated is the subtle motivation under the broader one, as what the research's co-conductor Savell posits in her dichotomy, that the power of possessing such database is overflowed in a sense of neutral-standing country, or such action rooted from self-protection after the 9-11 has grown to a competition-like activity to other bigger countries. After all, obtaining an informative database is an endowing of power, and here it mostly promotes counterterrorism. 

## Article 2
Contrary to the claims made in wbur's piece on the issue, United News of Bangladesh's [US-built databases a potential tool of Taliban repression](http://proxy.library.nyu.edu/login?qurl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.proquest.com%2Fnewspapers%2Fus-built-databases-potential-tool-taliban%2Fdocview%2F2569502145%2Fse-2%3Faccountid%3D12768) states the crisis brought by miss-possessing of explicitly informative databases. Provided these contain sensitive information of Afghan people, which intensionally were built for promoting law and order and government accountability and modernizing a war-ravaged land by the U.S. and its allies, not architected for the prospect of defeat, most of that digital apparatus relating to databases fell into Taliban hands, and the application of it becomes unpredictable. It's a real object lesson in 'The road to hell is paved with good intentions.'

It is pathetic for database experts that their great work has fallen into the possibility of misuse. As the tools and strategies used for building databases or securing databases are not under the rose, technical specialists on the Taliban side were able to break into the highly protective systems, and the case remains even when the protection was enhanced. The debate came here about the exhaustiveness of one database versus systems of many smaller databases and the ways of blurring and decoding sensitive information. 
